		Complete course on git, gh, github


			Github
	what is github?
github is a web application or mobile application that is use to keep track 
of codes, host website, remote collaboration jobs and etc.

Github uses what we call repository to create a project either private project or 
public project.

	What is public repository?
public repository are repository that are publicly rendered to the webb or the masses to access,
modify for their own use.

	What is Private Repository?
private repository are repository that are private, and accessible only through its encryption 
which can only be created using specific method call SSH key.

Repository either private or public can also be downloaded or clone using a specific option call
clone, note this are done from the linux terminal using git or gh terminal tools(software).

when you create a repository it can contain different types of files regarding to what the repo 
project is all about. To create a repository in your github you have to login fisrt and click on 
the plus(+)  sysmbol at the right hand side to get a drop down where you can create new repository.
Now a new page will pop up where you need to give the name of the repo, repo description, repo .gitignore
if neccessary else live it as none, repo licence if free or not free, you have to choose either creating a
private or public repo the choice is yours, repo Readme which tells details on how to install and excute the repo project.
Once set and done then click create to create your repository.

A repo parterning to the name describe what kind of files lives in the repo

To create a file inside a repo, click the add file button, a new page will open and you can give the name of the file
partaking to what the file is all about, a file also has a description where you describe what the file is all about.
Then you can choose either this files to be directed to the main branch or master branch which are the same or you can
select the second choice to create a separate branch for the file and set a pull for that file in the repo, the choice is
all yours.

The main and master branch are created once a repo is created, but earlier the github set a repo by default to be main when 
created, but this setting can be changed in the setting option to become master branch or still live it be default to be main.
The main and master are the same they are the first branch of every repo once created.

More on private and public repo
A public repo is easy to create and clone thats why people do not find it difficult to understand and people create more of public
than private repo, a private repo can be fustrating because of its encryption skills needed to clone a private repo, when a private
repo is created its can easily be accessed from the github website by the creator easily but need abit of skills to clone because
private repo is clone through an SSH URL.


			GH

	What is Gh?
Gh stands for Github, it is a command line interface (CLI) with cli graphics that allows us to easily communicate and interact
with the guíthub website from the cammand line or terminal.

	Uses of Gh?
1) It connect with the github website either by setting up a token connection with the gh and github from the command line or 
using a one time password to create the connection between the gh and the github for communication. Most people find gh interesting 
because it allows us to do all the stuffs we usually do in the github website from the terminal, and also the interface is friendly
because it uses GUI that is easy for people to use.

2)it allows us to create a new repository from the command line rather than creating it in the github website, this one of the great 
features that makes most people prefer gh than git.

3)it allows us to include all necessary attribute parttaking to the repo we are creating such as licence, Readme, Description, public
or private repo and gitignore. Once set and done we can clone the repo at that same spot into our local system.

4)it allows us to pull files from the github repo in the termina in to our local working repo.

5)it allows us to push our current working repo back to the github website from the command line.

Other Features concerning pushin and pulling are easily access when usig the gh in the termina such as 

	Push?
1)adding a file ready for push 
2)committing a file to keep track of changes in the file
3)Pushing the file to the specific branch you which to push the file.

	Pull?
1)Fetch file from the github repo
2)Merge fetch files to its current update 
3)Pull file from the github into the local working repo.

The Gh is more user friendly and allows us to do all we do in the github webbsite from the terminal.


			Git
	What is Git?
Git is a version control software that allows us to manage code changes, and tracking in time.
Git is a cli software that connect with the github by create a lock in using email and user name.

Github allow us to clone an already created repository in our github webbsite into our local system.
Github has similar features like the gh such as 

1)It allow us to clone and existing repo but does not allow us to create a repo from the command line.
2)It allow us to add files to the existing clone repo from our terminal 
3)It allow us to committ to our added files into the existing repo for tracking code changes in time 
4)It allows us to push the existing repo and added file back to the github repo
5)It allow us to pull existing files from the github webbsite and make changes to the and push them back.

    More on Pull? 
A pull file can only be push back by fetching, merging and pushing.

1)Fetch file from the github repo 
2)Merge file with the repo or current update
3)Pull file to the local working repo from the github.    
